#The Elves

Once there was a huge empire in the forest, ruled over by the alvedrott, a mighty emperor. In the temples, elven warriors learnt the secret of the elements and became powerful warriors and sorcerers.

Now there are mostly overgrown ruins left of the once mighty empire. The forest has swallowed the cities, the temples and castles, while the elves live simple lives as farmers and hunters in the forest. They mainly live in small villages, with swiddens, fields of slash-and-burn-culture, spread troughout the surrounding forest.

There are two main cultures among the elves, the Templar elves and the Shadow elves. Most villages belong to one or the other, though in some of villages you'll find adherents to both groups living together. Some are open-minded and try to find the best from each group, some view the other group as corrupters and traitors.
The “Templar elves” are the remnants of the empire, still maintaining the temples and waiting for the prophecised return of the drott. They gather for seasonal rituals at the temples and bring offerings to the Templars in return for spiritual and physical protection.

The shadow elves are the progeny of the rebels who overthrew the alvedrott, claiming freedom for all elves and rejecting the spiritual dogma of the Templar culture. While they don't eschew all rituals and aknowledge the elements, they claim that the strict discipline and secrecy of the Templars only exist to protect their authority. The name came from their study of light and dark, which led to their ideas of freedom and consequently the rebellion which ended the empire.

While the spiritual differences among the elves may be difficult to sort out for an outsider, the powerful elemental magic of the elves is feared by all other peoples of the forest.

Elven heroes must choose their culture, as it shapes their options. Templar elves search for ways to bring back the empire, often by claiming lost treasures and secrets from abandonded temples and crypts, but all the while they are sworn to protect the elves. Raids from goblins and orks, knights claiming land that used to be elf swiddens and dark creatures roaming in the night threaten elves, as well as the corruption of the shadow elves.

Shadow elves also search for knowledge, but are not limited to the leftovers from the alvedrott. Though they are equally commited to protecting their fellow elves from dangers, but not by demanding allegiance or offerings.
